hey this is presto Walker and you're
watching mind your decisions a square
with a side length of five is positioned
with its corner in the center of a
square with a side length of four as
shown in the diagram one side of the
overlapping region between the two
squares is equal to three the puzzle is
to calculate the area of the overlap
between the two squares that is to
calculate the area of the red shape
I think I'll hide from Israel for
suggesting this problem can you figure
it out give this problem a try and when
you're ready keep watching the video for
a solution so how can we figure this
problem out well the first thing is the
sight of three is actually irrelevant to
this problem we'll remove it
next we'll draw blue lines to extend the
sides of the square as shown what does
this do notice the square with a side
length of four is now divided into four
identical shapes each with an area equal
to the red shape therefore each shape is
equal to one-fourth of the squares area
so the red region has an area equal to
the area of the square which is 4 times
4 or 4 squared and then we divide it by
4 this will be equal to 4 amazing in
fact we can extend this problem that the
area of overlap between the two squares
always has an area of 4 so we consider a
square with a side length of 4 and then
we have a square with a side length of 5
what we'll do is we'll Cree
a tiling where we have four different
squares with a side length of five
notice the square with a side of four is
divided into four identical shapes right
now each with an area equal to four now
this will be true even as we rotate the
squares with a side length of five we
still have the square with the side
length of four being divided into four
identical shapes each with an area equal
to four now we can continue the symmetry
as we rotate the larger squares the
square with a side length of four is
always divided into four different
identical shapes therefore each will
have an area that's one-fourth the area
of the square it's a pretty neat problem
and rotational symmetry solves this like
magic
did you figure it out thanks for
watching this video these math videos
which can be watched for free inspire
and build confidence for people around
the world and they already have over a
hundred million views let's share the
beauty of mathematics with your help we
can math the world a better place please
subscribe for free to get the news
videos watch and share all of mind your
decisions videos email me a puzzle presh
and mind your decisions calm read my
books which are linked in the video
description and if you so choose you can
support me on patreon to earn exclusive
rewards thanks for watching and thanks
for your support